this story is based on such an incident
that occurred in 1996
and a relevant film was released in 2015
named everest
this film discloses the reality as what
had happened during that time as how a
man puts his life at risk to accomplish
some wishes
edmund percival hillary and tenzing
norgay were the first beings who climbed
up the summit of everest in 1953.
after that there were a few people who
climbed up everest because climbing up
everest is equal to death
and rob hall took it as his business in
1992.
he started to take people to mount
everest
and in the coming four years he
successfully completed this adventure
taking 19 people without any accident
rob is ready to take a new team to mount
everest in 1996.
rob's wife says before his departure
come soon because she is expectant
rob says no one can stop me to come and
he sets off his journey it is the 30th
of march 1996.
many passengers reach nepal
the company name of rob hall is
adventure consultants and rob's team has
many individuals named beck doug john
etc team has a total 13 members and the
journey time is 40 days and they have to
reach the summit of everest till 10th
june at noon time the whole team from
kathmandu flying above the height of
feet in helicopter reaches loosely
afterward they walk on foot ahead and
reach at the base point consisting of
the height of 1706.
there are different foreign teams who
want to reach the summit of mount
everest with their own companies this
team reaches at the height 21 300 feet
on the 23rd of april where the oxygen is
decreased there is a camp where the
people stay taking oxygen the missionary
companies have separate camps at the
different summits of mountains for
climbers
so that they may get rest
now the further journey is uneasy
because oxygen is decreasing the
mountain descent is straight this is a
place where they encounter the clouds
all companies camps have adjusted guide
ropes for the safety of climbers so that
the climbers may ascend because an
ordinary person cannot ascend without
the help of guide ropes it is not an
easy adventure because the season and
lack of oxygen gradually becomes the
cause of death of human beings
now they all move forward ascending
mountains they are facing much trouble
they are facing problems in breathing
but they continue to move ahead they
climb up at the mountain height of 24
000 feet
now hayden who is from rob's camp
informs him about the changing condition
of weather and the weather has changed
if it did not change it will prove
devastation
rob says there is no change of weather
mountains make their own way
and they begin ascending with his full
team it is very difficult to ascend step
by step because of the strong wind but
they have taken this accomplishment as a
challenge
so they continue and finally reach their
next camp having the height of 2685
feet the weather condition is worst here
so they decide to not move ahead moving
ahead means death but on friday the 10th
of may the weather condition is
moderated there is not a sign of any
storm and they again decide to ascend at
12 30 a.m and the distance of reaching
the summit is 12 hours
hoping it they start moving as they will
fulfill their dream within a few hours
after that they reach at the height of
600 kilometers while the clock strikes 4
39 a.m
there is a team member among them named
beck
there is an infection in his eyes he had
undergone eye surgery a few years ago as
a result he is unable to see clearly rob
tells him that we are moving ahead and
you can also if you feel better after
half an hour otherwise you will have to
end your journey here reaching ahead
others notice that there are no guide
ropes
and they start adjusting guide ropes
here because they cannot ascend without
the support of guide ropes three of them
decide to descend because there is cold
and strong wind and their summit oxygen
is also ended so they return back not
taking any risk even their destination
is not too far there are the deep braces
of snow on the mountain of everest with
the invisible layers
people have come to their end after
falling into these braces so they cannot
take a single step forward without any
guide rope now their whole team is at
the height of twenty eight thousand
hundred 740 feet
reaching at this height they suffer
hypoxia the symptoms of hypoxia include
stammering of tongue feeling of heat and
bad temperament it occurs because of the
lack of oxygen as all ascend they face
many complications as swelling of brain
and pleural effusion
adjusting the guide rope they begin to
move forward
their condition is worsened no one has
good health but a passion which is
pulling them ahead and they reach the
summit of everest at 1 14 p.m
they have completed what they had
dreamed
rob and his team are very rejoiced
after a time they decide to descend they
should return back at two o'clock
o'clock according to plan
they are late while clouds cover the
mountain and they find difficulty in
breathing because their oxygen tank is
empty rob tells as their oxygen tank is
empty and all reached climbers at mount
everest start descending now
while descending they encounter their
team member doug who is climbing up
rob forbids him to go but he replies if
he does not climb up today he will never
be able to come back
and rob takes him upward with great pain
in spite of his ill condition doug
reaches the summit of everest
while descending duke's condition is
worsened he is nearly semi-conscious
now both are trapped at the summit
robb's team asks him to return back but
rob forbids it telling he will not leave
doug it is the matter of human life
and he hardly struggles to descend doug
with guide rope suddenly the terrible
snow storm bursts here
leaving darger to place rob is going to
bring the oxygen tank he asks doug to
stay here due to the numbing of the
brain doug himself begins to come after
him
knowing nothing doug has fallen into a
ditch and no more here rob is also
completely exhausted so rests a while
meanwhile his team member also arrives
there who has attained the half oxygen
tank
after giving the oxygen tanked rob both
start descending in the snow storm they
are total 13 trapped members at the
summit and the snowstorm is moving over
there now it is three o'clock of night a
message is conveyed to them by the camp
that people are being sent to them for
their help but they can come at that
time when the snow storm will be stopped
and the climbers at the summit are dying
due to the cold and snow storm
now it is 5 00
and the date is the 11th of may
rob companions mind is numbed and stops
working due to the cold and exhaustion
when robb himself is about to lose his
senses his other companion picking off
his own jacket says it is a hot day
and he descends the mountain now they
are wholly disconnected with the camp
when the snowstorm is stopped rob's call
is received who says that i am unable to
move
because his hands and feet are frozen
he asks help from them telling his
partner is dead camp members insist rob
to descend in any condition
because there are still strong winds at
the summit but rob says i will be unable
to come afterward their contact is
disconnected
now the camp members at the downside say
to make contact with rob's wife
keep his phone beside satellite phone he
will be strengthened hearing the voice
of his wife
and they all do the same as they contact
his wife
rob's wife says you will have to
continue your walk son will be risen
after some time
just descend in any condition
rob is feeling much difficulty there
because there are strong blowing winds
breathing is not easy without oxygen
rob says that my feet and hands have
frozen but his wife says you will have
to walk for your blood circulation
you should not stop
then rob tries to get up from there and
helpers of rob who had gone upward to
save him they cannot reach there because
there are strong wins and they have to
return back
rob is told that the members who were
coming to help you have returned back
because of strong winds
rob says i will have to stay here for
one more night
because he cannot leave alone from there
rob's wife is worried and she says i
wanna talk trob
she asks rob you will have to come at
home
i am waiting for you
rob says to his wife i cannot meet sarah
sarah is the unborn baby of rob who is
named sarah by rob before her birth
rob apologizes her of not meeting her
because he knows that he is unable to go
back thinking this is his death time
rob's wife says don't say as such
you cannot lose your hope
robber shows his love for her saying you
must care yourself
later their call is disconnected
beck who is facing the eyes problem has
descended with other people and all
people are left at night in that
snowstorm and the survivors there are
also dead but beck is still alive
imaginating his wife and kids he moves
ahead stumbling with courage and he
reaches in the camp at the downside
where other people are also present his
condition is worst he will be dead if he
is not treated medically or not brought
him downside knowing about beck his wife
says that i myself will arrange a
helicopter helen who is the member of
rob's team says that air pressure is
much at the summit the approach of the
helicopter is difficult there then
beck's wife calls to american embassy in
nepal pleading them for beck's help they
range a helicopter for beck
and they rescue beck in a tough
situation
on the other side rob cannot be rescued
from the and trapped in the mountains
and they are all dead bringing back
downstairs he is treated his hands and
nose are written because of the frozen
blood so they have to detach from his
body but begs family supports him and he
lives with his family till today in july
1996 rob's daughter is born who is named
sarah by her mother as rob wanted it was
the tragedy of people in 1996 where many
people lost their lives the movie ends
here
subscribe to movies inspired for more
videos and click the bell icon to
encourage us
like and share the video let us know
what you think by commenting
[Music]